Page number
1
Deepika Nikam COM321 Coursework 2025/26
1. Coursework overview
Coursework 2: UX Project
COM321 (71447) 2025/26
Module Coordinator: Deepika Nikam
A web form (or HTML form) is a place where users enter data or personal information that’s then sent to a
server for processing. For example, users can share their name and email address to sign up for a newsletteror
place an order. In this coursework students will design and build the front-end for a web form to capturethe
information for the problem brief provided in Appendix 1. Students will then complete a video demonstrating
a cognitive walkthrough evaluation of the web form.
Deliverables [50 marks]
1. Each student should upload a self-contained zip file of the web form to the COM321 Assessment area
on Blackboard learn by 12 noon on Monday 8th December 2025. Include all necessary files. [30 marks]
2. Each student should upload a 2-minute cognitive walkthrough evaluation video of the web form they
have implemented to the COM321 Assessment area on Blackboard learn by 12 noon on Monday 8th
December 2025.A video tutorial of the cognitive walkthrough method has been provided in the
assessment folder in the module area on Blackboard Learn. Please remember that a cognitive
walkthrough is not an overview of the features you have implemented, rather it is a formal evaluation
technique to find usability issues - if you are unsure, please watch the video tutorial that has been
provided. Make sure cognitive walkthrough evaluation video must answer the following key
questions –
• Is the effect of current action same as users’ goal?
• Is action visible?
• Will user recognise action as correct one?
• Will user understand feedback? [20 marks]
2. Coursework Rationale
The project is a hands-on practical exercise on UX, Human-Centred Design and prototyping using a variety
of tools. Fundamentally, this means that design begins by getting to know the intended users, their tasks,
and the working context of their actions. Only then is the actual system design considered in terms of what
it should look like, and how the design should be based on real people, real tasks, and real needs. Human-
centred system design is not an academic process where some cookbook formula can be applied, nor is it an
intuitive process where a programmer can sit in their office and think they know what the user and their
tasks are. Rather, it is a hands-on process that requires students to identify actual users, talk to them about
what tasks they are trying to do, and understand the entire context of their work. The design is then based
on this information. Initial designs will be crude and problem-prone, and students will be expected to identify
potential usability problems by continually evaluating the design. This is called Iterative Design.
Most of the theory, techniques and skills required for this coursework will be covered in lectures and
practical classes – however, some more advanced techniques that demonstrate excellence in this subject
will require independent learning using the recommended reading texts and other resources suggested in
the module area on Blackboard learn.
In practical classes, students will complete several exercises using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/TypeScript,
Bootstrap and React to implement interactive web applications. These exercises will provide the necessary
base-level programming skills required to develop the interactive web form. It is not expected that the
interactive web form is a fully functioning system – but the front-end user interface should work as expected
Deepika Nikam COM321 Coursework 2025/26
in the final product to demonstrate full UX functionality.
Students are encouraged to work in groups during the requirements gathering phase of the project. Students
can also work in groups to get feedback on their designs – but each student must design and implement their
own solution to the problem brief. Group work encourages the development of skills useful in
employment (cooperation, negotiation, compromise, leadership, delegation, etc.). Students also learn from
each other. Students will have different ideas and contributions on the requirements, design and
implementation stages; this combined input is essential for Human Centred Design and User eXperience and
the project in COM321 offers students a unique opportunity to develop these skills.
Deepika Nikam COM321 Coursework 2025/26
This coursework adopts best practice in terms of current teaching pedagogies, utilising project-based
learning1, group work2 and reflective pedagogy3.
3. Coursework Description
Using human-centred design techniques, students define the requirements of the system addressing the
selected problem brief (see Appendix 1). Information architecture and design techniques will be used to
devise and test initial designs. Students will decide on the final design and will implement an interactive web
form. The following technologies are permitted: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, React and Bootstrap.
No other web frameworks are permitted. Students are not permitted to use WYSIWYG editors such as
Dreamweaver – they are expected to hand craft all code. All submissions will be inspected to ensure
compliance with this requirement.
Deliverables:
a) A self-contained zip file of the final web form will be uploaded to Blackboard learn as an individual
submission. The deadline for uploading is 12 noon on 8th December 2025.
b) Each student will individually evaluate their final system using the expert-based cognitive
walkthrough evaluation technique. This will take the form of an individual 2-minute video. Students
may include voice overs, captions, annotations and refer to design documentation during the video.
The deadline for uploading the video is 12 noon on 8th December 2025.
Collaboration Policy: Discussion with fellow students is encouraged and will benefit you in understanding
the material. Students may discuss concepts and/or ideas from lectures with anyone in the class. Students
may discuss concepts and/or ideas from their requirements and application design. Each student must
design and implement their own individual solution to the problem brief.
All submissions will be monitored in line with university guidance. If there is any confusion about the
plagiarism policy for this module, feel free to talk to me. Not understanding this policy is not an excuse for
breaking it. Self-plagiarism is plagiarism under this policy. If a student includes text or graphics copied from
other assignments, or projects or work they have completed elsewhere, they are required to make a note of
this. The Ulster University policy on plagiarism4 will be strictly enforced.
Project marking
Interactive web application submissions will be marked in terms of the completeness of the final product in
meeting the provided design brief. The 2-minute video will offer individual students the opportunity to
demonstrate and evaluate the practical application of their knowledge of the developed system. The mark
awarded will depend on critical analysis, technical and design complexity, solution originality, appropriate
use of UX and cognitive walkthrough completeness. A rubric (see Appendix 2) will be used to calculate this
mark.
Formative feedback will be provided during the weekly practical classes on all aspects of the project.
Summative feedback will be provided along with the marking rubric after the final project assessment.
No extension to deadlines will be granted unless extenuating circumstances exist, and the university
procedure5 has been followed correctly.
1 Barron, B. J., Schwartz, D. L., Vye, N. J., Moore, A., Petrosino, A., Zech, L., & Bransford, J. D. (1998). Doing with understanding: Lessons
from research on problem-and project-based learning. Journal of the learning sciences, 7(3-4), 271-311.
2 Ballantine, J., & Larres, P. M. (2007). Cooperative learning: a pedagogy to improve students' generic skills?. Education+ Training.
3 Richards, J. C., & Burns, A. (Eds.). (2012). The Cambridge guide to pedagogy and practice in second language teaching. Cambridge University
Press.
4 https://www.ulster.ac.uk/student/exams-and-appeals/policies-procedures
5 https://www.ulster.ac.uk/student/exams-and-appeals/extenuating-circumstances
Deepika Nikam COM321 Coursework 2025/26
COM321 (71447) 2025/26
Module Coordinator: Deepika Nikam
Appendix 1. Problem Brief – Electronic Prior Approval Web Form
The approval of student travel is required before any travel arrangements including a flight and/or an
overnight stay are made, by submitting a Prior Approval to the University for authorisation. Students need
to complete a detailed breakdown of the total cost involved including the travel to and from the place of
study. The existing paper-based Prior Approval Form in illustrated in Figure 1.
As a website developer, you have been asked by the university to update the current paper-based process
to a digital process by implementing a digital version of the Prior Approval Form.
Using human-centred design techniques, you should analyse this problem brief, the existing paper-based
Prior Approval Form (and supplementary notes), to define the requirements and design. You should then
implement the Electronic Prior Approval Web Form. It is not expected that the web form is a fully
functioning system – but the front-end user interface should work as expected in the final product to
demonstrate full UX functionality.
